Comprehensive Technical Architecture 
and Systems Engineering Report: Smart 
Trade Agentic AI System 
1. Architectural Paradigm and System Context 
1.1 The Evolution to Agentic Architecture 
The financial technology landscape is currently undergoing a radical transformation, shifting 
from static, rule-based automation tools—characterized as "Generation 2.0"—toward 
dynamic, reasoning-capable systems known as "Generation 3.0" Agentic AI.1 The Smart Trade 
Agentic AI System is engineered specifically to embody this shift, functioning not merely as a 
passive execution script but as a cognitive orchestration layer that resides between the retail 
trader and the market infrastructure. 
The architectural imperative of this system is to bridge the "Syntax Cliff," a documented 
cognitive gap where traders possess sophisticated strategic intent but lack the linguistic 
capability to translate that intent into the rigid syntactic requirements of proprietary trading 
platforms like MetaTrader 5 (MQL5) or TradingView (Pine Script).1 Traditional solutions have 
attempted to solve this via "No-Code" drag-and-drop builders, but these introduce a 
"Complexity Ceiling," preventing the expression of stateful, nuanced logic.1 Conversely, the 
Smart Trade architecture adopts an Agentic approach. In this paradigm, the software is 
composed of autonomous functional agents—Perception, Reasoning, Validation, and 
Execution—that collaborate to interpret natural language, deduce missing parameters 
through clarification loops, and rigorously validate logic against historical data before any 
market interaction occurs.2 
This system is strictly bounded as a "Strategic Translation and Validation Engine." It creates a 
verifiable "Grey Box" environment where the internal probabilistic reasoning of Large 
Language Models (LLMs) is converted into deterministic, inspectable code. This ensures that 
the user retains intellectual ownership and trust, countering the "Black Box" anxiety prevalent 
in the current market.1 The following analysis provides an exhaustive breakdown of this 
architecture, deconstructing the system into its atomic components, data structures, and 
inter-process communication protocols to demonstrate how it achieves high-fidelity strategy 
automation. 
1.2 High-Level System Topology 
The system is architected as a distributed, microservices-oriented application containerized 
within a Docker environment to ensure portability and reproducibility.1 The topology consists 
of three primary layers: 
1.​ The Presentation Layer (Perception): A stateful web client responsible for capturing 
user intent and rendering complex financial data. 
2.​ The Application Layer (Cognition & Orchestration): A Python-based backend serving 
as the central nervous system. This layer hosts the Agentic reasoning loops, the 
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline, the Backtesting Engine, and the Risk 
Sentinel. 
3.​ The Infrastructure Layer (Execution & Persistence): This includes the database 
cluster (PostgreSQL/Redis/Pinecone) and the specialized Execution Bridge that 
maintains a persistent socket connection to the MetaTrader 5 terminal.1 
Layer 
Primary Responsibility 
Key Technologies 
Presentation 
Intent Capture, 
Visualization, Clarification 
React, Redux, WebSockets 
Application 
Orchestration, Reasoning, 
Validation 
FastAPI, Celery, LangChain, 
Backtrader 
Data 
Persistence, Vector 
Indexing, Caching 
PostgreSQL, Pinecone, 
Redis 
Execution 
Signal Transmission, Market 
Feedback 
TCP Sockets, MetaTrader5 
Python Library 
2. The Perception Layer: Frontend Engineering and 
Intent Capture 
The Perception Layer is the system's sensory interface. Unlike standard trading dashboards 
that function as passive command centers, this layer is designed as an active "Perception 
Module".2 It is responsible for ingesting raw, unstructured natural language data, sanitizing it, 
and managing the state of the conversational workflow. 
2.1 The Secure Web Gateway (Client Architecture) 
The client is built using a component-based architecture (React), structured to handle the 
asynchronous nature of AI-driven interactions. The state management strategy is critical here, 
as the client must synchronize the user's conversational state with the backend's reasoning 
state. 
2.1.1 Conversational Input Interface (CII) 
The CII is the atomic unit for user interaction. It is not a simple text input field but a complex 
state machine that transitions between Listening, Processing, Clarification, and Error states. 
●​ Sub-Component: Input Sanitization Module Before any text is transmitted to the 
backend, it passes through a client-side sanitization filter. This module utilizes Regular 
Expressions (Regex) to strip potentially malicious prompt-injection patterns (e.g., "Ignore 
previous instructions," "System Override").1 This serves as the first line of defense, 
ensuring that the downstream LLM receives only clean, intent-focused text. 
●​ Sub-Component: State Synchronizer This component utilizes the WebSocket protocol 
to maintain a persistent connection with the backend orchestration layer. It listens for 
state_change events. For instance, when the backend identifies ambiguity in a strategy 
(e.g., "Timeframe undefined"), the State Synchronizer triggers a UI transition, replacing 
the input field with a specific "Clarification Card" component.1 
2.1.2 Visualization Engine (The "Glass Box") 
To satisfy the "Grey Box" transparency requirement 1, the frontend includes a dedicated 
Visualization Engine. This subsystem is responsible for parsing the complex JSON payloads 
returned by the backend and rendering them into human-readable formats. 
●​ Sub-Component: Code Differential Viewer​
When the RAG pipeline generates or refines MQL5/Pine Script code, the backend sends 
the raw string to the client. The Code Differential Viewer utilizes syntax highlighting 
libraries (e.g., PrismJS or Monaco Editor) to render the code. Crucially, it includes a "Diff" 
algorithm to visually highlight changes between iterations (e.g., changing a generic 
Moving Average to an Exponential Moving Average), allowing the user to visually verify 
the translation of their intent. 
●​ Sub-Component: Metric Renderer This component receives the "Robustness Score" 
and backtesting metrics (Sharpe Ratio, Max Drawdown). It uses data visualization 
libraries (e.g., D3.js or Chart.js) to plot the Equity Curve and Drawdown Chart. It 
transforms raw statistical arrays into interactive graphs, enabling the user to zoom in on 
specific stress periods (e.g., the COVID-19 crash) identified during the validation phase.1 
2.2 Frontend-Backend Interface Contract 
The communication between the Perception Layer and the Application Layer is governed by a 
strict API contract to ensure data integrity and type safety. 
Endpoint 
Method 
Payload Structure 
(JSON) 
Function 
/api/v1/intent 
POST 
{ "session_id": 
Transmits raw user 
"uuid", "text": 
"string", "context": } 
intent for 
classification. 
/api/v1/clarify 
POST 
{ "session_id": 
"uuid", "answer": 
"string", 
"variable_id": 
"string" } 
Returns user 
response to 
specific ambiguity 
questions. 
/api/v1/socket 
WS 
Stream<Event> 
Bi-directional 
stream for status 
updates and alerts. 
3. The Orchestration Core: Backend Application 
Architecture 
The Application Layer is the "Cognitive Module" of the system.2 It is architected using the 
FastAPI framework, chosen for its high-performance asynchronous capabilities (ASGI) and 
native support for Pydantic data validation.4 This layer acts as the orchestrator, delegating 
tasks to specialized subsystems (NLP, Validation, Execution) while managing the overall 
lifecycle of the user's strategy. 
3.1 The Request Orchestrator Middleware 
Upon receiving a request from the Perception Layer, traffic flows through a series of 
middleware components designed to secure and contextualize the request before it reaches 
the core logic. 
3.1.1 Security and Isolation Subsystem 
●​ Authentication Guard (JWT): This module intercepts every HTTP request. It decodes 
the JSON Web Token (JWT) in the header to extract the user_id. This ID is then injected 
into the request scope, ensuring that all subsequent database queries are scoped strictly 
to that user, satisfying the "Multi-User Isolation" requirement.1 
●​ Rate Limiter: To protect the expensive computational resources (LLM tokens and 
Backtesting CPU cycles), a sliding-window rate limiter is implemented using Redis. It 
tracks the request frequency per user_id and rejects bursts that exceed the defined 
quota (e.g., 5 strategy generations per minute). 
3.1.2 Dependency Injection Container 
The system utilizes FastAPI's dependency injection system to manage the lifecycle of 
database connections and external service clients.5 
●​ Database Session Manager: Provides a transactional scope for PostgreSQL operations. 
If an error occurs during strategy generation, the session manager automatically rolls 
back the transaction to maintain data consistency. 
●​ Vector DB Client: Manages the connection pool to the Pinecone vector database, 
ensuring that embedding queries are efficient and thread-safe. 
3.2 The Asynchronous Task Manager (Celery & Redis) 
Strategy generation and backtesting are long-running operations that cannot block the main 
web thread. The system employs a Producer-Consumer architecture using Celery as the task 
queue and Redis as the message broker. 
3.2.1 Task Producer 
When a user requests a new strategy, the API endpoint does not execute the logic directly. 
Instead, it serializes the request parameters and pushes a generate_strategy_task onto the 
Redis queue. It immediately returns a task_id to the frontend, allowing the UI to poll for status 
updates.6 
3.2.2 Worker Pools 
The system segregates workers based on their resource profiles: 
●​ GenAI Workers: These workers handle I/O-bound tasks involving the LLM and Vector 
Database. They are configured with high concurrency limits since they spend most of 
their time waiting for network responses. 
●​ Quant Workers: These workers handle CPU-bound tasks like Backtesting and 
Optimization. They are configured with a strict 1 process per core limit to prevent context 
switching overhead during heavy numerical calculations (NumPy/Pandas operations).1 
4. The Cognitive Engine: NLP and RAG Pipeline 
This subsystem represents the "Reasoning Engine" of the agentic architecture.2 It is 
responsible for the semantic processing of user intent, the retrieval of grounded knowledge, 
and the generation of syntactic code. It explicitly addresses the "Hallucination" risk inherent in 
LLMs by enforcing a strict Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) workflow.1 
4.1 The Intent Classification and Routing Module 
Before generation begins, the raw natural language input is analyzed to determine the 
appropriate workflow. 
4.1.1 The Semantic Router 
This component utilizes a lightweight classifier model (or a specific zero-shot prompt) to 
categorize the user's input into one of several intent buckets: 
●​ STRATEGY_CREATION: The user is describing a new trading logic (e.g., "Create a MACD 
strategy"). 
●​ STRATEGY_REFINEMENT: The user is modifying an existing strategy (e.g., "Change the 
stop loss to 50 pips"). 
●​ CLARIFICATION_RESPONSE: The user is answering a system-generated question. 
●​ EXPLANATION_REQUEST: The user wants to understand a specific part of the code. 
4.1.2 The Ambiguity Detection Subsystem 
A critical requirement of the system is the "Clarification Loop".1 This module scans the input 
for missing or vague parameters that are essential for a deterministic strategy. It employs a 
checklist-based validation logic: 
●​ Logic Check: Does the input define Entry conditions? 
●​ Logic Check: Does the input define Exit conditions? 
●​ Risk Check: Is a Stop Loss mechanism defined? 
●​ Context Check: Is the Timeframe and Asset Class specified? 
If any of these checks fail, the module triggers the Ambiguity state. It generates a specific 
clarification question (e.g., "You mentioned a 'Trend', how do you technically define that? SMA 
200? EMA 50?") and halts the generation process until the user responds. 
4.2 The Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) Pipeline 
This pipeline ensures that the AI generates code that is syntactically valid for the specific 
target platform (MQL5 or Pine Script).7 
4.2.1 Vector Database Architecture (Pinecone) 
The system maintains a specialized knowledge base stored as vector embeddings in 
Pinecone.1 
●​ Data Ingestion & Chunking: Authoritative documentation (e.g., the MQL5 Reference 
Manual, Pine Script v5 User Guide) and "Golden Template" code snippets are ingested. 
The text is split into semantic chunks (approximately 512 tokens) with a sliding window 
overlap (e.g., 50 tokens) to preserve context across boundaries.8 
●​ Embedding Model: The chunks are converted into high-dimensional vectors using an 
embedding model optimized for code (e.g., text-embedding-ada-002 or a specialized 
HuggingFace code model). 
●​ Namespace Isolation: The index is partitioned into namespaces (mql5_docs, pine_docs, 
risk_templates) to ensure that a query for MQL5 syntax does not retrieve Pine Script 
results.9 
4.2.2 The Context Assembly Module 
When a generation task is triggered, this module acts as the "Prompt Engineer." 
1.​ Query Generation: It converts the user's intent into a search query vector. 
2.​ Retrieval: It queries Pinecone for the Top-K (e.g., 5) most relevant code snippets and 
documentation chunks. 
3.​ Prompt Construction: It assembles a dynamic prompt that includes: 
○​ The User's specific intent. 
○​ The Retrieved "Golden Templates" (e.g., correct syntax for iRSI() or strategy.entry()). 
○​ System Instructions (e.g., "Enforce strict typing," "Include comments"). 
○​ Mandatory Risk Logic injection blocks. 
4.3 The Code Generation and Self-Correction Loop 
This is the final stage of the cognitive process, where the structured prompt is converted into 
executable code. 
4.3.1 The Deterministic Code Generator 
To minimize risk, the system does not allow the LLM to write the entire file from scratch. 
Instead, it uses a "Scaffolding" approach. 
●​ Skeleton Injection: The system provides a pre-validated code skeleton containing the 
necessary import statements, class structures (for MQL5), and event loop definitions 
(OnTick()). 
●​ Logic Injection: The LLM is tasked with generating only the specific logic blocks (e.g., 
the if conditions for entry/exit) which are then injected into the safe skeleton. This 
ensures that the core structural integrity of the script is maintained.1 
4.3.2 The "Compiler Loop" (Self-Correction) 
Recognizing that LLMs can still produce syntax errors, the system implements a recursive 
self-correction mechanism.1 
1.​ Draft Generation: The LLM produces Draft_Code_v1. 
2.​ Static Analysis: The draft is passed to a specialized parser (see Section 5.1). 
3.​ Feedback: If the parser detects errors (e.g., "Undeclared identifier"), the error log is fed 
back into the LLM as a new prompt: "The code you generated has the following error: 
[Error]. Please fix it." 
4.​ Iteration: This loop repeats up to 3 times. If the code still fails validation, the task is 
marked as FAILED, and the user is prompted to simplify the strategy. 
5. The Validation Subsystem: Adversarial Backtesting 
Once a strategy is generated, it must pass through the Validation Subsystem before it is 
eligible for deployment. This layer functions as an "Adversarial Agent," actively trying to break 
the strategy to ensure it is robust enough for live markets.1 
5.1 The Static Analysis Validator (Safety Gate) 
This module performs a static code analysis without running the strategy, acting as a 
gatekeeper against logical fallacies and safety violations. 
5.1.1 Look-Ahead Bias Detector 
One of the most common failures in algorithmic trading is "Look-Ahead Bias," where the 
strategy inadvertently uses data from the future (e.g., the Close price of the current bar) to 
make a decision.1 
●​ Mechanism: The validator parses the code Abstract Syntax Tree (AST). It scans for array 
indexing patterns that reference index 0 (current bar) in a context that implies a finalized 
value. In Pine Script, it checks for the usage of security() calls with 
lookahead=barmerge.lookahead_on, which causes repainting. If detected, the strategy is 
rejected with a specific error message explaining the bias. 
5.1.2 Parameter Validity Checker 
This component enforces the "Risk Guardrails" at the code level.1 
●​ Stop Loss Check: It verifies that a Stop Loss mechanism is present. It checks the 
calculated distance of the SL; if it is smaller than the broker's minimum StopsLevel (a 
defined constant in the system), it flags the strategy as "Too Sensitive." 
●​ Position Sizing Cap: It scans the logic for volume calculation. It asserts that the logic 
cannot produce a volume that exceeds the system-wide hard cap (e.g., 2% of equity). 
5.2 The Backtesting Engine Architecture 
The core simulation is powered by a high-performance backtesting library (Backtrader or 
vectorbt) integrated into the Python worker environment.10 
5.2.1 Data Ingestion and Synchronization Unit 
Garbage in, garbage out. This unit is responsible for providing clean data to the simulator. 
●​ Data Handler: It fetches historical OHLCV data from the database (TimescaleDB). 
●​ Integrity Check: Before passing data to the engine, it scans for "Data Gaps" (missing 
timestamps) and "Bad Ticks" (price = 0 or infinity). 
●​ Synchronization: It ensures that the historical data used for the test matches the data 
feed of the target execution environment (MT5) to prevent the "Backtest-Reality Gap".1 
5.2.2 The Simulation Core 
The engine runs the strategy logic through the historical data, candle by candle. 
●​ Broker Simulator: This sub-component models the friction of the real world.10 
○​ Slippage Model: It applies a probabilistic penalty to execution prices, simulating the 
delay between signal generation and order fill. 
○​ Spread Model: It uses variable spread data (if available) or a conservative average 
spread to calculate entry/exit prices. 
○​ Commission Model: It deducts transaction costs from every trade to calculate Net 
Profit. 
5.3 The Adversarial Stress-Test Module 
This module goes beyond standard backtesting by subjecting the strategy to "Torture Tests".1 
5.3.1 Stress Scenarios 
The system maintains a library of adverse market conditions: 
●​ Volatility Shock: The simulation creates a synthetic dataset where the ATR (Average 
True Range) is multiplied by 2x or 3x. This tests if the Stop Loss logic can survive extreme 
noise. 
●​ Liquidity Crisis: The simulation widens the spread by 5x during specific windows. This 
tests if the strategy remains profitable when transaction costs spike. 
●​ Black Swan Replay: The strategy is run specifically through historical crash periods 
(e.g., the 2020 COVID crash, the 2008 Financial Crisis) to assess its "Tail Risk." 
5.3.2 Robustness Scoring Engine 
Finally, the results are aggregated into a composite "Robustness Score" (0-100).1 This is not 
just a measure of profit, but of safety. 
●​ Math: 
 
●​ Thresholds: 
○​ If Max Drawdown > 50%, the Score is set to 0 (Automatic Failure). 
○​ If Win Rate < 30%, the Score is penalized heavily (unless Risk/Reward is very high). 
○​ If the strategy creates < 10 trades over a year, it is flagged for "insufficient sample 
size." 
6. The Execution Bridge: Connectivity and Protocols 
The Execution Layer is the physical interface to the market. Unlike passive charting tools, this 
system must actively manage orders. To avoid the fragility of third-party webhooks (latency, 
downtime), the system employs a custom-built, persistent Execution Bridge connecting the 
Python backend to the MetaTrader 5 terminal.13 
6.1 The Socket Communication Architecture 
The bridge utilizes a TCP/IP socket connection for Inter-Process Communication (IPC). This 
design minimizes latency and provides immediate feedback, unlike HTTP polling.14 
6.1.1 The Socket Server (Python Side) 
Running within the Docker container, the Python backend initiates a socket server listening on 
a specific port (e.g., 5555). 
●​ Protocol: JSON-over-Socket. All messages are serialized as JSON strings encoded in 
UTF-8. 
●​ Connection Handling: It supports a single persistent connection per strategy instance 
to ensure order of execution. 
6.1.2 The Socket Client (MT5 Side) 
An Expert Advisor (EA) running inside the MT5 terminal acts as the client. It connects to the 
Python server on startup. 
●​ Event Loop: The EA runs inside the OnTick() or OnTimer() event. It continuously listens 
for incoming JSON payloads from the Python server. 
●​ Command Parsing: When a payload arrives, the EA deserializes the JSON and routes 
the command to the appropriate MQL5 function (e.g., OrderSend). 
6.2 The MetaTrader 5 Connector Library 
For direct interaction with the terminal from the Python environment (when running on the 
same Windows host or compatible container), the system utilizes the official MetaTrader5 
Python library.15 
6.2.1 Atomic Functions 
●​ Initialization: mt5.initialize() establishes the link to the specific terminal instance. 
●​ Authentication: mt5.login(login, password, server) authenticates the trading account. 
●​ Data Fetching: mt5.copy_rates_from_pos(symbol, timeframe, start_pos, count) is used 
to pull historical data for the backtesting engine. 
●​ Order Execution: mt5.order_send(request) is the critical function. The system wraps this 
function in a try-except block to handle return codes (e.g., 10009 for "Request 
Completed", 10004 for "Requote"). 
6.3 Fail-Safe and Heartbeat Mechanisms 
Reliability is paramount. The system implements a Heartbeat Protocol to detect connection 
failures immediately.1 
6.3.1 The Heartbeat Protocol 
●​ Ping/Pong: Every 5 seconds, the Python server sends a {"type": "PING"} message. 
●​ Response: The MT5 EA must respond with {"type": "PONG", "status": "OK"} within a 
2-second window. 
●​ Failure State: If the response is missed (timeout), the Python system increments a failure 
counter. If 3 consecutive heartbeats are missed, the system declares Bridge Failure. 
6.3.2 The Safe-State Protocol 
Upon declaring a Bridge Failure, the system triggers the "Safe State" logic 1: 
1.​ Alerting: The user is immediately notified via the Web Client (WebSocket push) and 
Email. 
2.​ Signal Block: The Strategy Engine is locked; no new signals are generated. 
3.​ Reconnection Logic: The system attempts to restart the socket connection loop in a 
separate thread while keeping the strategy halted. 
7. The Sentinel: Risk Management Middleware 
The "Sentinel" is a specialized middleware component dedicated entirely to risk enforcement. 
It sits between the Strategy Engine and the Execution Bridge, acting as a final filter for all 
outgoing orders. Its mandate is to enforce the "Hard Boundaries" of safety, overriding the 
strategy logic if necessary.1 
7.1 Pre-Trade Risk Validation 
Before any OrderSend payload is transmitted to the bridge, the Sentinel intercepts it and 
performs synchronous validation checks. 
Risk Check 
Logic Description 
Action on Failure 
Max Position Size 
Checks if Volume * 
ContractSize * Price > 
AccountEquity * MaxRisk% 
(e.g., 2%). 
Scale Down: Reduces 
volume to the max allowed 
limit. 
Mandatory Stop Loss 
Verifies sl field is not null 
and sl > 0. 
Inject: Calculates and 
inserts a default SL (e.g., 2x 
ATR). 
Fat Finger Filter 
Checks if Volume > 
System_Max_Lot_Limit 
(e.g., 10.0 lots). 
Reject: Blocks the order 
completely. 
Frequency Limit 
Checks time since last 
trade. Prevents runaway 
algo loops (HFT 
prevention). 
Reject: Blocks orders sent 
< 1s apart. 
7.2 The Emergency Kill Switch (Kernel Level) 
The Kill Switch is the ultimate safety mechanism.19 It is implemented as a high-priority 
interrupt signal. 
●​ Trigger Mechanism: It can be triggered manually by the user (Dashboard Button) or 
automatically by the Sentinel (e.g., if Daily_Drawdown > 5%). 
●​ Execution Sequence: 
1.​ Queue Freeze: The Sentinel immediately locks the outgoing command queue. 
2.​ Cancel All: It constructs a {"action": "CANCEL_ALL_PENDING"} payload and sends it 
with High_Priority flag. 
3.​ Close All: It iterates through the list of open positions (fetched via 
mt5.positions_get()) and generates market close orders for each one. 
4.​ Process Termination: Once confirmed, it terminates the Strategy Execution Thread 
to prevent any logic from restarting. 
8. Data Persistence and Infrastructure Layer 
The system's memory and state are managed by a robust infrastructure layer designed for 
data integrity and auditability. 
8.1 Database Schema (PostgreSQL) 
The relational database stores the configuration, strategy definitions, and audit logs. The 
schema is designed to support the "Requirements Traceability Matrix" (RTM).1 
●​ Table: strategies 
○​ id (UUID): Primary Key. 
○​ user_id (FK): Owner. 
○​ intent_raw (Text): The original natural language prompt. 
○​ spec_json (JSONB): The structured strategy specification. 
○​ code_mql5 (Text): The generated source code. 
○​ robustness_score (Float): The validation result. 
○​ status (Enum): DRAFT, VALIDATED, ACTIVE, HALTED. 
●​ Table: audit_logs 
○​ id (BigInt): Primary Key. 
○​ timestamp (ISO8601): Precision time of event. 
○​ event_type (Enum): SIGNAL_GEN, ORDER_SENT, RISK_REJECT, KILL_SWITCH. 
○​ payload (JSONB): The exact data packet associated with the event. 
○​ strategy_id (FK): Link to the strategy. 
8.2 Time-Series Data (TimescaleDB) 
For efficient storage of market data (ticks and candles), the system utilizes TimescaleDB, an 
extension of PostgreSQL optimized for time-series data. 
●​ Hypertable: market_data 
○​ Partitioned by time and symbol to ensure fast queries for backtesting. 
○​ Used to cache historical data fetched from MT5 to avoid redundant API calls. 
8.3 Containerization and Deployment 
The entire architecture is defined as a multi-container application using Docker Compose, 
ensuring isolation and ease of deployment. 
●​ Network: A private bridge network smart_trade_net connects the containers. 
●​ Volumes: Persistent volumes are mapped for the Database (pg_data) and Redis 
(redis_data) to ensure data survives container restarts. 
●​ Services: 
○​ backend_api: The FastAPI orchestration core. 
○​ celery_worker: The compute nodes for GenAI and Backtesting. 
○​ db: PostgreSQL/TimescaleDB. 
○​ redis: Message broker. 
○​ frontend: Nginx serving the React build. 
9. System Integration: The Complete Lifecycle 
To visualize how these components fit together, we trace the complete lifecycle of a strategy 
from interface to execution. 
1.​ Perception (Interface): The user logs into the Web Client and types: "Create a strategy 
that buys EURUSD when the 50 SMA crosses above the 200 SMA." 
2.​ Cognition (NLP & RAG): 
○​ The Request Orchestrator routes this to the NLP Engine. 
○​ The Ambiguity Detector notes a missing "Stop Loss." 
○​ The Clarification Loop triggers, asking the user: "What is your risk rule?" 
○​ User replies: "Use a 50 pip trailing stop." 
○​ The Context Assembler retrieves MQL5 syntax for Moving Average and Trailing Stop 
from Pinecone. 
○​ The LLM generates the MQL5 code. 
○​ The Static Analysis Validator confirms no syntax errors. 
3.​ Validation (Simulation): 
○​ The Backtesting Engine pulls EURUSD history from TimescaleDB. 
○​ The Simulation Core runs the strategy, including a Volatility Shock stress test. 
○​ The Robustness Engine assigns a score of 85/100. 
4.​ Deployment (Execution): 
○​ User clicks "Deploy." 
○​ The Strategy Engine spins up a thread, subscribing to EURUSD ticks via the 
Execution Bridge. 
○​ A tick arrives. Logic triggers a BUY signal. 
○​ The Sentinel verifies the trade size (0.1 lots) is within the 2% risk cap. 
○​ The Socket Server transmits {"action": "ORDER_SEND",...}. 
○​ The MT5 Client executes the trade and returns {"ticket": 12345}. 
5.​ Persistence (Audit): 
○​ The Audit Log records the entire chain: User Prompt -> Generated Code -> 
Validation Score -> Live Trade Ticket. 
This integrated flow demonstrates the system's ability to seamlessly translate abstract human 
intent into concrete, validated, and safe market actions, fulfilling the core architectural 
mandate of the Smart Trade Agentic AI System. 
Works cited 
1.​ Academic Requirements Specification.pdf 
2.​ Agentic AI Architecture: Types, Components & Best Practices - Exabeam, 
accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://www.exabeam.com/explainers/agentic-ai/agentic-ai-architecture-types-c
omponents-best-practices/ 
3.​ Tech Navigator: Agentic AI Architecture and Blueprints - Infosys, accessed 
February 11, 2026, 
https://www.infosys.com/iki/research/agentic-ai-architecture-blueprints.html 
4.​ Ultimate guide to FastAPI library in Python - Deepnote, accessed February 11, 
2026, https://deepnote.com/blog/ultimate-guide-to-fastapi-library-in-python 
5.​ Bigger Applications - Multiple Files - FastAPI, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/bigger-applications/ 
6.​ Structuring a FastAPI Project: Best Practices - DEV Community, accessed 
February 11, 2026, 
https://dev.to/mohammad222pr/structuring-a-fastapi-project-best-practices-53l
6 
7.​ RAG Pipelines Explained: Setup, Tools, and Strategies | Generative AI 
Collaboration Platform, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://orq.ai/blog/rag-pipelines 
8.​ RAG Pipeline: Example, Tools & How to Build It - lakeFS, accessed February 11, 
2026, https://lakefs.io/blog/what-is-rag-pipeline/ 
9.​ Understanding the RAG Pipeline: Components and Hyperparameters | by Ajay 
Verma, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://medium.com/@ajayverma23/understanding-the-rag-pipeline-component
s-and-hyperparameters-66772b7ede56 
10.​How I Built an Event-Driven Backtesting Engine in Python | by Timothy Kimutai | 
Medium, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://timkimutai.medium.com/how-i-built-an-event-driven-backtesting-engine
-in-python-25179a80cde0 
11.​Build a custom backtester with Python - AlgoTrading101 Blog, accessed February 
11, 2026, 
https://algotrading101.com/learn/build-my-own-custom-backtester-python/ 
12.​The Fed - Proposed 2026 Stress Test Scenarios - Federal Reserve Board, 
accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/2025-november-proposed-2026-str
ess-test-scenarios.htm 
13.​Price Action Analysis Toolkit Development (Part 36): Unlocking Direct Python 
Access to MetaTrader 5 Market Streams - MQL5 Articles, accessed February 11, 
2026, https://www.mql5.com/en/articles/19065 
14.​Integrating Python and ML Algorithms with MT5 for Forex Trading: Worth it? - 
Reddit, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://www.reddit.com/r/algorithmictrading/comments/1cqxdju/integrating_pyth
on_and_ml_algorithms_with_mt5_for/ 
15.​Python Integration - MQL5 Reference, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://www.mql5.com/en/docs/python_metatrader5 
16.​metatrader5 - PyPI, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://pypi.org/project/metatrader5/ 
17.​Algorithmic trading: enhancing your systems, governance and controls - KPMG 
International, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://assets.kpmg.com/content/dam/kpmgsites/uk/pdf/2019/12/algorithmic-tradi
ng.pdf 
18.​Risk Management Systems in Algorithmic Trading: A Comprehensive Framework - 
NURP, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://nurp.com/wisdom/risk-management-systems-in-algorithmic-trading-a-co
mprehensive-framework/ 
19.​Best Practices For Automated Trading Risk Controls And System Safeguards - 
FIA.org, accessed February 11, 2026, 
https://www.fia.org/sites/default/files/2024-07/FIA_WP_AUTOMATED%20TRADIN
G%20RISK%20CONTROLS_FINAL_0.pdf 
